now the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron
speak to the children of Israel saying
these are the animals which you may eat
among all the animals that are on the
earth among the animals whatever divides
the hoof having cloven hooves and
chewing the cud that you may eat
nevertheless these you shall not eat
among those that chew the cud or those
that have cloven hooves the camel
because it chews the card but does not
have cloven hooves is unclean to you the
rock hyrax
because it chews the card but does not
have cloven hooves
is unclean to you the hair because it
chews the cud but does not have cloven
hooves is unclean to you and the swine
though it divides the hoof having cloven
hooves
yet does not chew the card is unclean to
you
their flesh you shall not eat and their
carcasses you shall not touch they are
unclean to you these you may eat of all
that are in the water whatever in the
water has fins and scales whether in the
seas or in the rivers that you may eat
but all in the seas or in the rivers
that do not have fins and scales all
that move in the water or any living
thing which is in the water they are an
abomination to you they shall be an
abomination to you you shall not eat
their flesh but you shall regard their
carcasses
as an abomination whatever in the water
does not have fins or scales that shall
be an abomination to you
and these you shall regard as an
abomination among the birds they shall
not be eaten they are an abomination the
eagle the vulture the Buzzard the kite
and the Falcon after its kind every
Raven after its kind the ostrich the
short eared owl
the seagull and the hawk after its kind
the little owl the fish are all and the
screech are the white owl the jet door
and the carrion vulture the stork the
Heron after its kind the Hoopoe and the
bat all flying insects that creep on all
fours shall be an abomination to you yet
these you may eat of every flying insect
that creeps on all fours those which
have jointed legs above their feet with
which to leap on the earth these you may
eat the locust after its kind the
destroying locust after its kind the
cricket after its kind and the
grasshopper after its kind but all other
flying insects which have four feet
shall be an abomination to you by these
you shall become unclean whoever touches
the carcass of any of them shall be
unclean until evening whoever carries
part of the carcass of any of them shall
wash his clothes and be unclean until
even
the caucus of any animal which divides
the foot but is not cloven-hoofed
or does not chew the card is unclean to
you everyone who touches it shall be
unclean and whatever goes on its paws
among all kinds of animals that go on
all fours those are unclean to you
whoever touches any such carcass shall
be unclean until evening whoever carries
in his such carcass shall wash his
clothes and be unclean until evening it
is unclean to you
these also shall be unclean to you among
the creeping things that creep on the
earth the mole the mouse and the large
lizard after its kind the Gecko the
monitor lizard the sand reptile the sand
lizard and the chameleon these are
unclean to you among all that creep
whoever touches them when they are dead
shall be unclean until evening anything
on which any of them falls when they are
dead shall be unclean whether it is any
item of wood or clothing or skin or sack
whatever item it is in which any work is
done it must be put in water and it
shall be unclean until evening then it
shall be clean any earthen vessel into
which any of them falls you shall break
and whatever is in it shall be unclean
in such a vessel any edible food upon
which water falls becomes unclean and
any drink that may be drunk from it
becomes unclean and everything on which
a part of any such carcass falls shall
be unclean whether it is an oven or
cooking stove it shall be broken down
for they are unclean and shall be
unclean to you nevertheless a spring or
a system in which there is plenty of
water
be clean but whatever touches any such
caucus becomes unclean and if a part of
any such caucus falls on any planting
seed which is to be sown it remains
clean
but if water is put on the seed and if a
part of any such carcass falls on it it
becomes unclean to you and if any animal
which you may eat dies he who touches
its carcass shall be unclean until
evening he who eats of its carcass shall
wash his clothes and be unclean until
evening he also who carries its carcass
shall wash his clothes and be unclean
until evening and every creeping thing
that creeps on the earth shall be an
abomination it shall not be eaten
whatever crawls on its belly whatever
goes on all fours or whatever has many
feet among all creeping things that
creep on the earth these you shall not
eat for they are an abomination you
shall not make yourselves abominable
with any creeping thing that creeps nor
shall you make yourselves unclean with
them lest you be defiled by them for I
am the Lord your God you shall therefore
consecrate yourselves and you shall be
holy for I am
neither shall you defile yourselves with
any creeping thing that creeps on the
earth for I am the lord who brings you
up out of the land of Egypt to be your
God you shall therefore be holy for I am
holy
this is the law of the animals and the
birds and every living creature that
moves in the waters and of every
creature that creeps on the earth to
distinguish between the unclean and the
clean and between the animal that may be
and the animal that may not be
you